# Graduation Project Feedback Session by Arindam

  Meeting started: 6/19/2026, 9:06:16 PM
  Duration: 77 minutes
  Participants: Abhigya Khandelwal, Adithya Pise, Arindam Mukherjee, Dedipya, Dhairya Bansal, Gagan Bansal, Jayna Tanna, Jyotirmoy Nath, Manish, Md107 calvin, Naina Singh, NUSHANT SETHI, Prasanna Shinde, Rohan Raj, Saketh Sawant, SEKHARAMANTRI VARUN KUMAR, Shiv Bandopadhyay, Sneh Suman, srishti, Tanishq 1101CP21230041, Vishal, Yash

  [View original transcript](https://app.tactiq.io/api/2/u/m/r/2HAbJufaWpaf3LfxuwEu?o=txt)

    

  

  
    ## Highlights

    > 03:28 Arindam Mukherjee: Are you going after AI tools being tasked with writing code? Are you going after AI tools, going after some other use case? So that is the important thing, right? Age, experience, and all of those things don't matter in this case. If you have used that,
> 05:48 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? So that's basically how you need to kind of… how you should have approached it in this particular case, right? Now, as you can understand, if your segmentation goes wrong, Automatically, the research that you would have done also would have gone wrong. Okay? So, if you've done that research based on a segment that you would have chosen which is wrong, then the insights that you'd have gotten also would have been wrong. For example, if you have gone after something like, MBA students does not make much sense, because MBA students might be using it for their assignment completion, might be using it for applying to jobs, uh, might be using it for salary comparison, might be using it for way, way different cases.
> 08:23 Arindam Mukherjee: For example, a teacher, right? Now, if you just say teacher, now, is it a K-12 teacher? Is it a college teacher? What kind of teacher are you talking about out here? Alright? Who are you talking about out here? Right? It has to be very, very specific there, right? If you talk about, kind of, um… creatives, right? Now, are you talking about the creative folks in the agencies? Working in the agency, or are you talking about creative folks in different organizations? What kind of creative… what is the work that they're doing with AI tools? Are they generating new static ads? Are they doing something else with those creatives? So, if you are not very specific, then it becomes very hard for you to move forward there. And that's why segmentation is basically a very important thing. No, it does not take up a lot of space, that's an excuse that you're coming up with.
> 16:33 Arindam Mukherjee: Use it to design survey questions, and all of that is fine, right? But when you're presenting your own work, right, um… Remember that it goes in your portfolio, Tomorrow, the hiring manager, if he or she asks you the question, okay, why have you written this? You should be able to defend it, right?
> 18:45 Arindam Mukherjee: Uh, but that's the first level, that there should be a problem-solution pair for the identified problem, the solution is the right solution to come up with. The second level that we look at is, is this solution differentiated or not? Uh, that's the second thing that we look at, or is this a solution which is already out there in the market, someone or the other has already done something like that, right? So, that's the second thing. And the third thing that we look at is… Is there a competitive advantage that you are building by coming up with this solution? How or is it very easy to actually copy that solution, and the competitor will have it the next day? Right? So that's the third thing that we are looking at, and… Combining all of these three things is basically what leads to the creativity of the solution.
> 53:18 Prasanna Shinde: Hi, Adindam. So, once I reviewed my evaluation, I saw that, apart from all the factors, I scored relatively a bit less on the presentation and communication skill part. Reviewing my submission, I see I could have been a bit more articulate, and some of the slides are a bit too wordy, but in general, like, as you mentioned, the storytelling part becomes more important, and how we can present. So, maybe what are the factors which I, and in general, we could use to maybe improve that, or what are the things that we need to take care of?
> 54:21 Arindam Mukherjee: Right. See, that leads… yeah, so those are kind of… pretty much presentation, one-on-ones that I would go back to first. Simple thing is your slide titles should always convey the message of the slide. And not something like research, solution, metric, something like that, no. The title should actually say what is the summary of that particular slide. Okay? You should use visual aids. You should make sure that the…
> 55:55 NUSHANT SETHI: So, I just want to ask that, on the next website, as I can see, there are 3 things which you have to submit. The first is a 10-slide PDF, I got that. I just… I just can't able to understand that, what are the other
> 59:05 Rohan Raj: Okay, so, when you say we need to also submit a link, do you actually mean that we need to build a dashboard of the insights that
> 59:17 Arindam Mukherjee: No, we want to… No, so it… see, you can also submit a GitHub link Right? You can… or you can also submit
> 01:01:02 Arindam Mukherjee: No, it… see, again, think about it in the real world. If you're building something, wouldn't you want your solution to stand out and… kind of have that competitive advantage. If you build something which is very easily built by another competitor the next day,
> 01:01:50 Rohan Raj: Ticket Thank you.
> 01:03:02 Manish: Yeah, uh, I just had a doubt that, um, the initial, the part one of the project. In which, uh, as everyone knows, you have to, like, post the link, right? So, it is also mentioned that the evaluator will also test the workflow. So, the question was like, now you mentioned we can just put the GitHub link.
> 01:03:22 Manish: So, once we put the GitHub link, generate the scraping and all takes a lot amount of time, so is it like you, you, the validator even wants to check the scraping happening plus the filtering out happening.
> 01:04:29 Manish: Okay, that is a very important clarifying question.
> 01:04:40 Arindam Mukherjee: When you submit a link, right, we can test for that also.
> 01:04:46 Manish: Okay. And my second question is, so there was a line mentioned so that the strategic goal of the whichever company you choose.
> 01:05:28 Manish: Yeah, one minute… Yeah, I'm just reading out the line. Uh, so one of your company's strategic goal. is to increase meaningful music discovery.
> 01:06:26 Shiv Bandopadhyay: Yeah, hiatam. So, actually, I just wanted to confirm, in that review analysis test part, we can share the GitHub, README and Voice test demo, these things we can share. It will not be a negative effect.
> 01:06:41 Shiv Bandopadhyay: Okay, and one more thing I wanted to ask, in, last, in protract build, do we also need to, build a similar kind of, something we have to submit, or only just a front-end prototype build only we can submit
> 01:07:47 Md107 calvin: Hi, so the main issue that I am still stuck on the review part, that is
> 01:12:50 Dhairya Bansal: Uh, in the problem statement, uh, it's been given that this is a company goal. a company goal does not mean that that is the business outcome. I mean, you will extract…

  ## Transcript

  00:00 Arindam Mukherjee: content writing, it is used to generate analysis reports, it is used to… Uh, do data analysis. It is used to write code, right? These are all different use cases. of AI tools today, right? Now, The use case of trusting the code written by the AI tool is very different from… the human trusting, the response… for a specific piece of content, say, written for SEO purposes. So it's very, very different there, right? Why is it different? Because the people involved in this are very different. One is going to be a developer, One might be a founder, one might be a content marketer, so your overall segment starts changing.
00:45 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? The person you are going after starts changing, right? And what we saw is that a lot of you missed that mark, right? You did not actually go with that use case. Uh, which basically made your segmentation very, very broad, right? You cannot go after a very broad segment like, say, an age-based segment, for example. I saw some submissions which had an age-based segmentation. Does not make any sense out here, right? If you take an age-based thing, of, say, 18 to 35 age group, right? And it does not make any sense here, right? I hope you understand this aspect, right? When we're talking about segmentation, segmentation basically revolves around the need, right? And in this case, the need is tied to the use case of AI tools, right? So, a junior developer trusting the code written by the AI agents is very different from a founder trying to build out their MVP and trusting the code that has been written, right? Similarly, someone… Uh, with domain experience, trusting the code versus someone without domain experience, trusting The content is very, very different, right? So… I think that was the first level wherein I saw a lot of you falter. So, for those of you who attempted it, Look at your submission, and let me know in the chat if this is something which you… kind of did not go deeper into.
02:12 Arindam Mukherjee: I did find a lot of submissions, and this is… the call wherein I expect that honesty from each one of you, so that you are looking at it from a pure, uh, neutral view, I know all of you would have been very attached. emotionally to the work that you have put in. It's natural, but this is also the time wherein you take a hard look at your own work and see did that actually make sense? You might have thought that, okay, this makes sense, But, uh, this is the time wherein you look at it in a neutral manner there, right? Uh, age does not actually matter in this case, to be very honest. Okay? It is the use case. Now, does the use case change with age? In this case, no.
02:55 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? Because, for example, a software developer, that software developer can be 20 years of age, can be 35 years of age. At the end of the day, the… Uh, work is that of software development, that of writing code. Right? Again, MBA students, junior consultants is not kind of the segmentation to go with. First is the use case-based, right? Are you going after the use case of AI being asked to… AI tools being tasked with generating content for content marketing.
03:28 Arindam Mukherjee: Are you going after AI tools being tasked with writing code? Are you going after AI tools, going after some other use case? So that is the important thing, right? Age, experience, and all of those things don't matter in this case. If you have used that,
03:43 Arindam Mukherjee: It's the wrong way to think about it, right? Whenever you are going after segmentation, the first question to think about is, How does the need vary? Does the need vary based on use case? Does the need vary based on age? Does the need vary based on some other parameter? That is the first thing to think about. Okay? And I saw a lot of you missing the mark on this, right? And which is why I will basically really ask you guys to think very deeply around segmentation. This is where across cohorts, I've seen a lot of people go wrong on. You try to apply a template that, okay, I've learned 6 different segmentation models, let me blindly apply that, right? Does not work.
04:25 Arindam Mukherjee: Alright? You have to really… and this is what showcases your score in depth of thinking, right? Here, the depth of thinking is shallow. If you are using 18 to 35. Does not make any sense. That means there is no depth put in into the thought process. Okay? Even in interviews, if you're asked a question like this, and if you just say, okay, I will choose a people from 18 to 35, Absolute no higher call then and there. This shows that you have not understood what segmentation is all about. Okay? So that's the very first thing which I wanted to highlight, and this was a very common pattern across a lot of submissions this time.
05:01 Arindam Mukherjee: Uh, so I just wanted to make sure all of you guys understand this. Is everyone following this? Give me a quick yes if you've understood. This, um, out here. So, right segment out here is based on use case. First, just think about the use cases for which AI tools are being used. It has been used for content creation, Content can be textual content creation, can be multimodal, image-based content creation.
05:24 Arindam Mukherjee: Uh, can be code generation, right? Can be analysis, data analysis, can be writing up a research report, so on and so forth, right? Now, the next thing is, who is actually you having this use case. And that is where you start understanding the profile of the user. Is it a software engineer? Is it a junior software engineer? Is it a senior software engineer? And accordingly, you start choosing your segment.
05:48 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? So that's basically how you need to kind of… how you should have approached it in this particular case, right? Now, as you can understand, if your segmentation goes wrong, Automatically, the research that you would have done also would have gone wrong. Okay? So, if you've done that research based on a segment that you would have chosen which is wrong, then the insights that you'd have gotten also would have been wrong. For example, if you have gone after something like, MBA students does not make much sense, because MBA students might be using it for their assignment completion, might be using it for applying to jobs, uh, might be using it for salary comparison, might be using it for way, way different cases.
06:28 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? So, if you're using that broad of a segment, then you need to… you should have narrowed it down through your survey or through your research, and that is another thing which we did not see in a lot of submissions. You just went ahead and did that kind of survey or that research with that broad a segment, which means that the insights that you would have gotten would not actually have been that kind of insightful.
06:55 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? So that's basically the thing. Yes, researchers is also very broad. You should have narrowed it down. What do you mean by these searches? Are you talking about medical researchers who are researching about new drug delivery? Are you talking about economic researchers who are working in the policy, uh, teams of the governments? Are you talking about, kind of, equity researchers who are researching different companies in the equity markets? Are you talking about some other kind of researchers? Researchers is a very, very broad category, right? So you have to be very, very specific
07:30 Arindam Mukherjee: about the target segment that you're going after, because if you're not specific enough, that means that you are not clear about the use case. As simple as that. Okay? So, that's the major miss which I saw, and it had a ripple effect across different parts. of the problem statement after that, right? And obviously, if your user research is not done on the right segment, then the insights that you're getting are shallow.
07:57 Arindam Mukherjee: Which basically means the problem definition, as you start going into the problem canvas pieces, was shallow, And that basically meant that the solution that you're talking about or coming up with was also not very effective. Right? Um, so that's one of the patterns that we saw across a lot of submissions. Um, the second thing, again, type of profession, creative, technical, academy, it's too broad. You have to kind of narrow it down by the use case. Very specific use case.
08:23 Arindam Mukherjee: For example, a teacher, right? Now, if you just say teacher, now, is it a K-12 teacher? Is it a college teacher? What kind of teacher are you talking about out here? Alright? Who are you talking about out here? Right? It has to be very, very specific there, right? If you talk about, kind of, um… creatives, right? Now, are you talking about the creative folks in the agencies? Working in the agency, or are you talking about creative folks in different organizations? What kind of creative… what is the work that they're doing with AI tools? Are they generating new static ads? Are they doing something else with those creatives? So, if you are not very specific, then it becomes very hard for you to move forward there. And that's why segmentation is basically a very important thing. No, it does not take up a lot of space, that's an excuse that you're coming up with.
09:12 Arindam Mukherjee: Uh, because you've missed it, right? It does not take up a lot of space. Whatever I am seeing right now, it does not take up a lot of space, okay? So, once you have chosen that segment, it's a good question that Varun is asking, Should it also have a meaningful size? And that's why the choice of the segment to go after matters. Right? If you're going after a… remember, we had said this in the segmentation, um, lesson also, the class also, right? that when you are actually kind of choosing the segment, how do you choose the right segment? It depends on two things. One is the impact, and one is the probability of success. The impact is determined based on the segment size.
09:51 Arindam Mukherjee: And the probability of success depends on, kind of, how easy or difficult is it to change the user's behavior. Right? And that is where your trade-off starts coming in. That is where your mind should actually go. Should I go after this segment first, or that segment first, etc. In this case, though, because AI is being used across so many different professions, almost across the board. Your segment size would never have been very small, right? It would always have been quite big to begin with, right? Uh, but if you wanted to go after a very big segment, you could have easily chosen coding.
10:24 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? And that could have been as big of a segment as you possibly can in today's world, right? So, uh, but that's basically the thing which, um, kind of, I wanted you guys to register. That segmentation is one of the biggest things that can make or break your overall thinking, and a lot of you got it wrong. Okay? So that's kind of one of the pieces to think about. How could you have actually escaped this particular trap? And when we… when we give these questions, when we give these problem statements, we have in our mind, okay, these are potential traps that we can… perhaps test for, and obviously, when you fall into that trap, it validates our thinking.
11:04 Arindam Mukherjee: Um, how could you have eva- uh, how could you have escaped this kind of a trap, right? When you are starting on the market research part of it, for example, right, you should have first tried to understand Okay, when we talk about generative AI, what AI tools are being used for, what are the use cases that are there For which AI tools are being used, right? And we had given a subtle hint also in the problem statement, but we know that you all, many times, do not read the details. We actually had mentioned all these different kinds of use cases. If you read the guidelines one more time, you'll find… that we have, actually, written that in the problem statement. We had given these specific pointers, like, it is being used for tasks like coding, research, analysis, and so on and so forth.
11:52 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? So, um… so that Hindu is there, but I think a lot of you would have missed that hint. Uh, but that is the primary thing to start off with. When you are doing that market research to begin with, the overall landscape, and you're trying to understand it. First, try to kind of go deeper into it. Don't just… kind of assume that you have understood the problem, right? Um, remember we talked about clarifying questions. So, in your mind, you should have asked those clarifying questions.
12:22 Arindam Mukherjee: Uh, do I really understand this problem statement that has been given? Right? When we are being said that AI responses are not trusted, what do I mean by AI responses? What kind of AI responses are there? Alright, uh, so if you would have asked yourself that question, you automatically would have escaped that trap, right? And that is what I always say. Whenever a problem statement like this is given, always try to make sure you're understanding the problem student really well, and ask those questions in your mind. Not just for the projects, but also for the interviews when you are there, right? In front of the hiring managers.
12:55 Arindam Mukherjee: Alright, uh, moving forward, the other, uh, thing which I saw was in terms of metrics, um, obviously that depends on the solutions that would have been proposed, but, um, in metrics, I saw a lot of people struggle in terms of what are the right metrics to go after. Uh, and this is, again, uh, something which you guys missed, and you have had your sessions on AI evals, and you should have actually looked at, uh, the stuff that has been taught during those sessions as well. A bunch of you missed out on those aspects there, right? So from a metric standpoint, A lot of you, I saw, tried to apply that, uh, tested thing of, are metrics, activation, uh, kind of, uh, your, uh, retention and engagement and all of those kind of metrics, but this was a very different kind of a problem statement, right? Those things would not… Makes sense out here. And, uh, you should have thought a lot more about your AI eval metrics, which I thought was a very big miss in a bunch of submissions, and most submissions there as well.
14:05 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? So that was another pattern that I saw. How many of you missed the AI eval metrics completely? Yeah, okay, uh, so, again, see, the thing is… We know that a lot of you look at previous fellow decks, and you try to… thing, you… you basically think that, okay, if that person became a top fellow with this kind of a submission, I should also try to adopt that template. Does not work, and I've repeated that again and again.
14:37 Arindam Mukherjee: Because the problem statements are very different, Uh, and if you just reply that without your own thinking, It's not going to work out, okay? So, make sure you are bringing out your original thought process, because who are you trying to impress out here? Only yourself, and who are you trying to fool? It's only yourself. Because something like this, when it gets asked in interviews, You don't have a template to follow, right? That interviewer does not care about who the previous top fellows are, or were, and things like that. So, try to bring out your authentic thought process, that's what we want to see.
15:12 Arindam Mukherjee: And a lot of you, as I said, like, on metrics, I saw, and that was a kind of a trap that was laid again there, and we found that a lot of you fell into that trap. Right? Um, so yeah, so I think, uh, that was the second big one. Or the third big one, uh, big pattern that we saw. Finally, I think from a communication standpoint, um… Um, kind of what we saw is a lot of you have used AI tools to generate slide titles and… the slide content and stuff like that, right? Uh, you might have done your own work, research work.
15:54 Arindam Mukherjee: created the prototypes and all of that, and you… use the AI tools to generate the content. It's fine, uh, to be very honest. But, uh… I just am not sure… whether you are outsourcing your thinking completely by doing that. Um, that's the only concern that I have, right? And you… some of you who would have attended previous months' feedback call, You would have rememb… you would remember that I had said very specifically for… the graduation project, do not use AI tools for these things. Use it for your research.
16:33 Arindam Mukherjee: Use it to design survey questions, and all of that is fine, right? But when you're presenting your own work, right, um… Remember that it goes in your portfolio, Tomorrow, the hiring manager, if he or she asks you the question, okay, why have you written this? You should be able to defend it, right?
16:53 Arindam Mukherjee: If you're able to defend it, then great, but… My fear is many of you may not be able to defend what is being written, because… You have outsourced that content creation part of it there. And, uh, that's the only thing which I wanted to highlight, right? Now, coming into, uh, how each of these different parameters are actually looked at, Um, in terms of scoring, we, um… First, look at how well has the problem been defined, how deep have you gone to understand the problem, which is where… You use your research, your segmentation, all of those things matter.
17:32 Arindam Mukherjee: Uh, right? And that is where the clarity and depth of thought actually come in. Um… we look at things like, are you making a data-backed decision to see why you are choosing a particular segment based on… the size, have you done that impact calculation, the opportunity sizing? Have you actually used data to prioritize your solutions? Have you… Actually, and that can be qualitative data as well, not necessarily quantitative data, because data can be quantitative, can be qualitative. How have you used your user research data to influence your thinking, how have you actually defined your metrics and all of that. These are things which go into your data and metrics orientation part.
18:12 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? So that's the second, uh, aspect. Uh, third is on creativity of solution. There are three things that we look at. The first is… Uh, the solution that you're proposing, is it addressing the problem that you have identified or not? Right? Because in some submissions, we saw that the solution that is being proposed is Very different from what the problem identified was, right? So, which basically means it does not make any sense, and you are very solution-led versus problem-led. And which leads to, kind of, a reduction in scores, definitely.
18:45 Arindam Mukherjee: Uh, but that's the first level, that there should be a problem-solution pair for the identified problem, the solution is the right solution to come up with. The second level that we look at is, is this solution differentiated or not? Uh, that's the second thing that we look at, or is this a solution which is already out there in the market, someone or the other has already done something like that, right? So, that's the second thing. And the third thing that we look at is… Is there a competitive advantage that you are building by coming up with this solution? How or is it very easy to actually copy that solution, and the competitor will have it the next day? Right? So that's the third thing that we are looking at, and… Combining all of these three things is basically what leads to the creativity of the solution.
19:32 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? So, if you scored low on creativity of solution, most likely, on the second and the third levels, you would not have gone deeper in terms of differentiation and in terms of competitive advantage. Right? Of the solution. Most submissions fail there on those second and the third levels. Finally, uh, the communication skills category, that is where we look at your visual, uh, kind of aids being used. Are you actually able to communicate or articulate your thought process well enough? Or is it just a dump of a lot of text, and you expect the reader to do all that cognitive burden, uh, bear that cognitive burden, to understand what you are trying to go after? Right? So, uh, that's basically, basically, your presentation and communication skills. We look at the structure of your thought process, We look at, uh, kind of how you have presented your thought process. Is it all stitching together? or not, for example, if the problem identified as something, the solution identified as very different, then obviously it'll… we scored low, even in presentation and communication skills, and not just on clarity and depth of thought.
20:38 Arindam Mukherjee: So, that's basically the way to think about the evaluation part of it. Uh, but yeah, I think these are some of the things which I wanted to highlight, given the patterns that we have seen in this one's kind of graduation project. Yeah, happy to take any questions if you guys have any. Do we need to explicitly mention the comparative advantage of the solution? Absolutely, yes, right? Because… See, in the real world also, when you're building out a solution, That question will always come to you from your internal stakeholders, that how is this differentiated? How is this something which nobody else can actually come up with in at least the next few months, right? If you're not able to kind of come up with that, then you miss the mark, right? So, that's basically the thing that, uh, you need to always keep in mind.
21:25 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? Any questions? Yes, Varun, go ahead.
21:30 SEKHARAMANTRI VARUN KUMAR: Sadly, the research findings of my user research had no sync to the user behavior. When I was trying to observe how the researchers, obviously I took the wrong segment, but
21:43 Saketh Sawant: Hi, I'm transcribing this call with my Tactiq AI Extension. https://tactiq.io/r/transcribing
21:43 SEKHARAMANTRI VARUN KUMAR: When I tried to observe how the people are researching, it had no sync to my research findings. So, even in the PPT, I tried to explicitly mention that I favored behavioral findings instead of this, but again, you were saying You also look at how well I'm explaining, like, the reason behind, you know, like, why this is a problem part.
22:06 Arindam Mukherjee: Yep.
22:08 SEKHARAMANTRI VARUN KUMAR: I don't think my research was able to substantiate that, so I don't know what to do in that, like, in those kind of scenarios. I've even asked you the same thing in other queries group So, like, how do I
22:21 Arindam Mukherjee: So, and I… you see, the thing is, this is something which happens in the real world also, okay? Uh… In the real world, uh… Sometimes you will find that what is coming out of the research differs from the data, et cetera, right? And which is where you need to really take a hard look. Are you looking at the right segment? Is it now a problem of a very different segment? And that's why I said this, right? Sometimes user research will… throw a lot of these kind of peculiar things, right? Uh, if you do the research properly, you'll find that you oftentimes run into that, that basically means You need to re-look at the research, uh, kind of scope.
23:04 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? Are you choosing the right people, uh, as the respondents? Are you actually going after the right segment? Are you actually asking the right questions during the research? Have you framed your research questionnaire in the right way? All of those things matter. Right? Because, see, at the end of the day, when you're doing research, why are you doing research? You're doing research In order to increase the confidence in the direction that you are headed in. That's the intent for doing the research. So, if it is not increasing the confidence, that means you'll have to go back to the drawing board again.
23:34 SEKHARAMANTRI VARUN KUMAR: Yes. You got it.
23:40 Arindam Mukherjee: By the way, I don't know how many of you, uh, kind of understand, uh, uh, that this is a very real problem being worked on, and this is… Uh, I'll just share a link, and please do read it when you get time. Uh, this is Adios Osmani, who is kind of the director of Google Cloud. Uh, very popular name in the world of AI. And he talks about a specific segment of this particular problem, right, wherein he talks about how do you trust whether the code that has been written is correct or not, and he talks about the code review part of it. Right? Do read it, right? And you'll understand how, kind of, uh, how big of a problem this is today.
24:27 Arindam Mukherjee: Uh, there is another company, I think it is called, uh, Pramana Labs, if I'm not wrong. Uh, Pramana.ai, if I'm not, uh, or maybe I'm… not remembering the name correctly. But yeah, I think they are working on a pure infrastructure solution to solve for this exact same thing. Right? So, it's a very, very kind of, um… very, very real world kind of a thing, and again, I think I got the name correct, so this is… Pramana Labs AI. So, whatever you guys are working on in terms of graduation projects, we try to… Uh, give you guys problem statements which are very, very real life.
25:10 Arindam Mukherjee: is being actively worked on, so do take a look at both of these, yeah. Aditya, yes? Right.
25:17 Adithya Pise: So, actually, I choose the segment actually semi-expert knowledge workers, since I am a developer, I choose that. So, usually, the score I got in
25:26 Arindam Mukherjee: But what do you mean by that? First, explain what does that mean.
25:30 Adithya Pise: Huh.
25:30 Arindam Mukherjee: Sami, what did you say? Semi?
25:32 Adithya Pise: Any expert knowledge workers, like
25:34 Arindam Mukherjee: be expert knowledge workers, okay? I have no idea what that means.
25:39 Adithya Pise: That's the main topic I have given, but under that, I have chosen the professionals and the researchers and the developers.
25:47 Arindam Mukherjee: See, which is what I'm saying, so you have to be a bit specific.
25:49 Adithya Pise: Okay.
25:51 Arindam Mukherjee: See, the work that a researcher does is very different from the work that you do. Would you agree?
25:56 Adithya Pise: Yes.
25:56 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? Your needs are very different from the researchers' needs.
26:00 Adithya Pise: Yes.
26:00 Arindam Mukherjee: So, why do you want to go after two very big, broad segments? Go after one.
26:03 Adithya Pise: Okay. Okay. So, whatever the solution we are proposing, that it includes only specific segment, that is okay.
26:11 Arindam Mukherjee: Yes, absolutely, yes. Okay? Abigail?
26:19 Abhigya Khandelwal: Um, higher indem. So, I, uh, like, I… I've not started working in the problem statement yet, but what I feel is that If you take the data, you take the reviews, you crunch it, And you get a…
26:31 Arindam Mukherjee: I'll come to this month's graduation project part in a bit, so… Keep your hands raised, let me first address all the questions. For previous months' projects, yeah. Tanishk?
26:45 Tanishq 1101CP21230041: And, so basically, the… in my competencies, the creativity of my solutions score is much more than the Top Fellows median. But my clarity and the presentation part
26:54 Arindam Mukherjee: Hmm. Hmm.
26:58 Tanishq 1101CP21230041: is lower than the median, like, quite lower. So, I took a very broad segment. I took, college students and early Basically early job professionals of ages 20 to 28.
27:11 Arindam Mukherjee: Hmm.
27:12 Tanishq 1101CP21230041: So that I understand that I took a very broad segment But, like I still don't understand, like, my score is quite low
27:23 Arindam Mukherjee: Yes, that's what I said earlier, right? See, if you choose the segment wrong, it has a ripple effect on everything after that. Right? Your user research is going to be shallow. Your problem definition is going to be shallow, your solution is not going to be that effective. It has a ripple effect. So you would have scored low in… across the board.
27:42 Tanishq 1101CP21230041: Yeah, like, basically my data metrics and creativity of the solution are fine
27:48 Arindam Mukherjee: At this point, you think you are fine because
27:48 Tanishq 1101CP21230041: They are around the top yellow medium, yeah
27:51 Arindam Mukherjee: you're comparing it to with other people, but you could have scored a lot higher if you'd have… got in the right segment.
28:00 Tanishq 1101CP21230041: Yeah.
28:01 Arindam Mukherjee: See, again, the thing is, don't try to compare with others. Compare with yourself first. You do not control other people's performance. You control only your performance. So there's no point in comparing with others. Right? It's a human tendency, especially in India, I have seen this, outside of India, it's not as much. India, I see people comparing salaries, comparing marks, and all that. You know, it's a… from school, we have been trained to do that, right? But that's a waste of your brain space also. Compare against yourself. What's your best kind of potential, and how are you faring against that? That should be the comparison.
28:43 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? Jenna?
28:47 Jayna Tanna: Yes. Hi, Rindam. I just request, can you open my deck? I have two doubts, so if you can clear on that. Oh, yes. So I, like, based on the feedback, I understand, like, I did two big mistakes. First is, like, you use a segment
28:48 Arindam Mukherjee: Right. Ask the question first.
29:02 Jayna Tanna: I, didn't, went too very deep that I just took early careers, 0 to 3 years, but I understand that I was taking the people who are asking a high-stake task, like, they are not asking basic tasks, but I didn't call out separately over there in the deck, and after when I'm coming to solution I just, pasted my screenshot, and I just pasted the flow, how it should go, and like, write some major 2-3 things, what about the solution, and rest everything I kept in one solution, like, hyperlink over there, but I didn't mention in the deck, so that's why, I think I get lesser score
29:39 Jayna Tanna: So, is it the same case? Can you, just check in the deck, if it's possible?
29:42 Arindam Mukherjee: let's just call it, what, like, your… Presentation
29:45 Jayna Tanna: And the clarity, and no, in the clarity, of the thoughts
29:48 Arindam Mukherjee: Clarity and depth, as I said, like, if your segmentation is wrong, typically you will score lower in clarity and depth of thought, because the category is clarity and depth of thought.
29:59 Jayna Tanna: Yes.
29:59 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? So that obviously has an impact there, and obviously, the other things that you mentioned,
30:01 Jayna Tanna: And the
30:06 Arindam Mukherjee: like, the are there, it's very hard to read, right? Even if I am in full-screen mode.
30:10 Jayna Tanna: Okay.
30:12 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? It is very, very hard for me to read. Right? So, as a reader, you have not thought about the reader. So why do we actually look at these things? Because, see, what's happening, I don't know if you guys understand this aspect,
30:15 Jayna Tanna: Yes, okay.
30:25 Arindam Mukherjee: But as, um… generation of content becomes very much commoditized. The storytelling skills become even more valid. Okay? So, which is why what we are looking at from these communication skills standpoint is, Can you actually tell a story to hook the reader? All right? Content anyone can generate, right? That's not the problem, but are you able to… structure it properly? Are you able to think properly and stitch it together, and… craft a very compelling thing.
31:00 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? Imagine if you are presenting this within… anthropic as the company. Will you be able to grasp the audience's attention? Who would be stakeholders inside? Right? That's the way you should think about it. Okay?
31:17 Jayna Tanna: Yes, yes. Thank you.
31:17 Arindam Mukherjee: Snea? Snee? Snee Suman?
31:26 Sneh Suman: Uh, yes, Anandam, I wanted to know… that how do we choose segment? Because even I chose the same segment as of Jaina, like, professionals, so…
31:39 Arindam Mukherjee: Basically, the thing is, first, you have to understand why did you choose that. It's okay you have made a mistake, but first question to ask yourself is why did I choose that? And my guess… is… you just were lazy. Correct me if I'm wrong. All of you who actually chose a broad segment, correct me if I'm wrong here,
31:58 Sneh Suman: Uh, okay.
32:02 Arindam Mukherjee: But… I'm very sure that all of you just were lazy. You just did not want to focus on that.
32:11 Sneh Suman: Actually, I used it because it is the major segment. And the data…
32:17 Arindam Mukherjee: What even my major segment?
32:18 Sneh Suman: like, even I come in that segment, like, There was this biasness that I come in this segment, and I have my peers, friends,
32:27 Arindam Mukherjee: Which is okay. Which is still okay. Like, Aditya is a software developer, I would have been happy if we had focused only on software developers. Let's say, share the ideas of money's article also. Right? That is absolutely okay.
32:40 Sneh Suman: Yeah
32:42 Arindam Mukherjee: I don't mind that. You are living from your own experience, and you're basically saying, I have faced this experience, and I've had this experience, that's why I'm choosing a segment to which I belong. But choosing a segment? with a very broad criteria, like, for example, in this case, Would you choose a segment based on income? Why not?
33:05 Sneh Suman: glide in…
33:09 Arindam Mukherjee: Why not? I'm asking you, why…
33:12 Sneh Suman: I… in the Indian came to my mind, like, money aspect of it.
33:18 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay. So then why would you choose it based on age?
33:24 Sneh Suman: Because, uh, this age… Age criteria is using most of AI, like…
33:32 Arindam Mukherjee: Most of AI.
33:35 Sneh Suman: Yeah.
33:36 Arindam Mukherjee: Where are you coming up with these generic inputs?
33:36 Sneh Suman: Like, majorly, yeah, majorly, yeah, like, they're…
33:38 Arindam Mukherjee: to the very fact that you are coming up with these generic statements means that you have not put in that effort to go deep. Right? See, at the end of the day, you have to first understand the market. Alright? The market basically shows that, okay, a billion users are there using AI tools. Who are these billion users, first of all? What are they using it for?
33:52 Sneh Suman: Trade, trade.
33:59 Arindam Mukherjee: Wouldn't that question come to your mind first? Why are you assuming you know how people use AI?
34:03 Sneh Suman: Yes.
34:06 Arindam Mukherjee: There are so many research reports which have been published by OpenAI, by MIT and others. You should have looked at that. That's what secondary research is all about. That's what market research is about.
34:17 Sneh Suman: Right, this is where I, yeah, this is something, even which I realized. that, uh, I should not do this.
34:22 Arindam Mukherjee: You have two. See, which is why I'm saying, think as if you are working at Anthropic. And you're presenting to Dario. the CEO. Would you have done this half-hearted effort? If you are being paid, say, $100,000 for this, would you have done this work? Then, while you're doing it now?
34:41 Sneh Suman: No. Right, you're right.
34:47 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? Yash?
34:51 Yash: Uh, I just have a small clarification question. So, uh, my segmentation, I have done it on basis of the, uh, Version level, the evaluation behavior, uh… which the users have. So, uh, I have used my surveys mainly to come up to a conclusion with my segmentation.
35:12 Arindam Mukherjee: Hmm.
35:12 Yash: So, I have identified that… certain part of users, they are evaluating And there are also done behavior, like, let's just say that… low stakes, low-value stakes, they are not, uh… I mean, uh, I mean, they are highly trusting those values and not evaluating those. opens. But when it comes to high-stake, uh… outputs. They are evaluating those. So, uh, my segmentation, I have done it on basis of the evaluation, uh, behavior, like, some part of the segment is about people who are blindly trusting everything.
35:48 Yash: And one part is about who are completely non-trusting, and in my segmentation is, uh… People who are trusting for certain outcomes and not trusting for some outcomes.
35:58 Arindam Mukherjee: See, but in which use case?
36:01 Yash: Yeah, so that's what my follow-up question was. So, if I just… came up to this segmentation, you want me to further drill it down? and come up, uh, yeah.
36:10 Arindam Mukherjee: Absolutely yes, right?
36:11 Yash: Okay. So…
36:11 Arindam Mukherjee: Absolutely, yes.
36:14 Yash: So it's just like, uh…
36:14 Arindam Mukherjee: I'll give you a very simple example, right? I'll give you an example. Let's say, um… We are talking about… Users searching for… medical advice. Okay? We know a lot of people search for medical advice.
36:33 Yash: Yeah.
36:33 Arindam Mukherjee: on these AI tools. Okay? Based on that medical advice, if people are acting on that medical advice, What do you think? Should… would you… You would want to make sure, Ki, the responses are trusted, right? Now, that is a very different kind of a use case as compared to trusting the code that is being generated, correct?
36:56 Yash: Yeah.
36:56 Arindam Mukherjee: Your approach is going to be very different for both.
36:59 Yash: Yeah, correct.
36:59 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? Also, the kind of tools that are being used for code, for example, The tool that is being used is perhaps you are using a model within a coding editor. Right? Versus in medical advice, you are using the chat mode? Your interface is very different. You understand the differences now. In terms of the use cases.
37:22 Yash: Yeah, So, yeah…
37:24 Arindam Mukherjee: If you're, let's say, doing some data, I don't know how many of you have used… AI tools to do data analysis. Many times, it will do the wrong analysis. Completely wrong. Only someone who understands that domain really well is able to counter it and say that, no, you have done it wrong. But I've seen a lot of people who… Just accept, oh, they have done it, they said that they are writing a Python script, I'm pretty sure they would have done it the right way, even though I have no idea about what Python is.
37:57 Arindam Mukherjee: It sounded very intelligent, so I'm pretty sure… a lot of people like that, right?
38:05 Yash: Yeah. Yeah, I understand.
38:05 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? I just wrote an article also for a publication this week, On this exact topic, right? I was just talking to Someone in, uh, working in a bank, and she was basically saying, that my team members send me credit reports of customers, and Uh, it is AI-generated, and uh… I… I just accept it, right? And I was like, do you know those are correct? And she said, like, I actually don't. But I have no way to figure out how to evaluate these responses. Right? Now, imagine a credit report being signed off. And a loan being sanctioned. That is a very different consequence. So for each different use case, your research is going to yield very different insights.
38:59 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? Vishal?
39:08 Vishal: So, I mean, this might sound a bit dumb, but actually, when choosing a segment, when we put a question like, this segment, I mean, who are you as a correspondent for this Google form or something, like, are you preparing for some exam? Are you professional, or are you a medical student or something
39:08 Arindam Mukherjee: Yeah. Yeah.
39:25 Vishal: So, I actually designed this cushion based on the people who will fill out my Google form. Actually, the people around me, for example, doing job, and my brother… I have some friends in my brother's I mean, his acquaintance or something, so he is a medical student, so I put out… put it out like those. So, I hardly go to 30 responses, so I chose segment according to… and who will fill out the form So, is that a wrong thing to do? I mean… I don't get much responses, I tried hard, but yeah.
39:54 Arindam Mukherjee: Also, see, it should have a long thing to do… see how I would have thought about it, to be very honest, is, like, In the real world also, Uh, sometimes our friends say something, and which we don't believe in, But it feels like, okay, let me try to see if there is any truth to it, right? What will you do? You'll ask another friend. Right? Or you would search on Google and… try and validate that, right? That's what we typically end up doing.
40:25 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? In the real world, that's what typically we do, right? It is not that it's only AI which says the wrong thing sometimes, right? Uh, in the real world, our friends also say some of the wrong things, they share forwards which are wrong, and things like that, right? So, you validate those, Correct? So, which means your mind works that way. to validate whether something is working or something is not working, and you have a validation loop. At the end of the day, right? Before jumping into it.
41:00 Arindam Mukherjee: But when it comes to AI, why are you forcefully thinking of a particular solution? And trying to act very fancy. In the real world, all that you have is a validation loop, nothing else. Correct? So that's the thing which I'm basically asking you guys to do it, like, when you are thinking, think in simpler terms first.
41:19 Vishal: Yeah
41:26 Arindam Mukherjee: And then you can go into the other pieces. Whenever it has something to do with AI, you will always, believe me, you will always find similarities with how your mind thinks. Because LLMs are built around that. It is built on a very good understanding of how the human brain works. or most of the concepts will have a parallel to how the mind works. So, the moment you understand that, it becomes very different. thought process for you guys. So all that research that you're talking about, I would say, like, just think in simpler terms first.
41:58 Arindam Mukherjee: What would you have done in the real world? And you would have… you would see that you are going in a very different direction there. Does that make sense?
42:11 Vishal: I mean, yeah, so Robert, I'm sorry, I don't understand it fully, so I mean, I can go ahead with my people who are available to fill those questions of research, right? That's fine, right?
42:25 Arindam Mukherjee: Yeah, so again, if you're doing… you're talking about one-on-one interviews, right?
42:32 Vishal: I'm talking about both, yeah.
42:33 Arindam Mukherjee: Both as in?
42:37 Vishal: Both in the, there is this limitation of 30 people, no? That you need at least 30 people to fill out your form
42:41 Arindam Mukherjee: No, there is no limitation. See, again… No, there's no limitation. We basically say that… see, again, try to understand this very simple thing. Why do you do research? You do research in order to increase your confidence in the direction you are headed. Correct. Now… How many responses you should get? is a question which a lot of people ask, and it is the wrong question to ask. You should always think about, okay, given the insights that I've gotten, am I really confident in the direction that I'm headed? Okay? And because people force me into giving a number, I say that, okay, at least N should be 30.
43:24 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? But if you look at it from a pure statistical angle, right, Given the context of the problem, 30 responses does not make sense here. It is about getting that, like, for example, I think Varun was talking about it, right? The insights that I got here versus the insights that I got Elsewhere, are we conflicting. Now, it's going to happen. If… because you are chasing a number, you are not chase… which is the wrong thing to chase. You should not chase that. I saw someone in the chat also, I did not even get 30 responses. 30 is not the magic number here. that I get 30 responses, okay, I get 1 point. No, that is not the way you should think about it.
44:05 Arindam Mukherjee: I'm giving you a number of 30 so that you know that, okay, your survey is not going to… Work out if you just get 10 responses. You should work towards that, at least 30. Now, the more number of responses you get, the more validation you get of the way you're thinking. That's the way to think about. How confident are you in the direction that you are… headed in.
44:29 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? Srishti?
44:35 srishti: Yeah, hi Arundam. Actually, I might sound a bit dumb right now, but just wanted your take on my perspective. What happened with me was, Rindam, earlier I actually thought maybe I should go ahead with the use case segmentation But after that, I… what I thought was, okay, supposedly if it is researcher
44:56 Arindam Mukherjee: Hmm.
44:57 srishti: Or a lawyer, or versus an interior designer, or anyone for that matter. All of them have some very basic, kind of interaction with ChatGPT, or for my topic was ChatGPT. So, like, you know, they might be talking about medicals, they might be talking about law, they might be talking about finances
44:59 Arindam Mukherjee: Hmm. Hmm.
45:18 srishti: Right? All those kind of non-domain tasks. So, if I actually maybe concentrate on only one particular use case or a task
45:25 Arindam Mukherjee: Hmm…
45:26 srishti: And I come up with a solution. The, like, the trust factor would again get impacted of that particular person, you know, if it actually… if he or she goes for any other task of different domain, like, a non-domain part. Like, supposedly
45:42 Arindam Mukherjee: No, but the thing is, I get your point, right? But at least you would have solved for one… particular domain properly, before you move into another domain. See, it is not that you work on one domain and you stop, right? That is not the objective, but at least whatever domain you're picking up, you should be able to solve it properly.
45:52 srishti: I totally
45:59 Arindam Mukherjee: Then you move on to another domain. What's the problem?
46:05 srishti: I get it, totally get it, yeah.
46:06 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay, Nana?
46:11 srishti: Thank you.
46:13 Naina Singh: Hi Rindam. So, I wanted to ask, like, when evaluating the solution part, what typically, you know, differentiated an average solution from an exceptional one, or I would say, like, of a top fellow one
46:13 Arindam Mukherjee: Right. See, again, I think mostly what we have seen is the differentiation is not at the solution level, it's more at the problem level, always. Right? Because that's what product management is all about. The differentiation is always about a deeper understanding of the problem versus a solution, okay? Uh… now… On the solution side, typically most… people, just cross the first level, which is… They… Make sure that the solution is… meeting the problem that you've identified, or it is addressing the problem that you've identified. A bunch of submissions do not even do that. They do not even cross Level 1.
47:11 Arindam Mukherjee: Level 2 and level 3 is something which we always yearn for, to be very honest, right? But across cohorts, we found that hard. to find, right? Um… It is, like, I still remember, uh, I think I had given you guys this example also during the class, which is… Um, someone who had worked on Zomato reviews and used astrology principles to actually come up with a fortune cookie thing.
47:38 Arindam Mukherjee: Alright, uh, which I thought was very, very interesting, very differentiated from what is there in the market, and was addressing the problem statement, and things like that, right? So, something like that is… Kind of rare, to be very honest. Um, and… but… but yeah, I think, uh, that's what we… look for, uh, but it's hard to find. Typically, at the solution level, most people would be at level 1 only. Okay? But the differentiation is usually at the problem level, not at the solution level. problem understanding of the depth.
48:14 Naina Singh: And, one more thing, like, how were our prototypes were, you know, evaluated
48:20 Arindam Mukherjee: Yeah, so for the prototypes, we look at a few things, right? So, for example, I'll just give you a very simple example, right? Uh, we had prototypes… Some of which were lovable links, and we do not want to see lovable links. We do not want to send… any more free traffic to Lovable. uh… we would much rather… we want you guys to deploy it to production. Right? Which means you should… you should have learned how to deploy things, right? And we've taught you that. And we expect to see a bunch of those. So that's the first thing.
48:55 Arindam Mukherjee: The second thing that we look at is what is the finesse in the final… deployed stuff, right? Is the functionality very clear? Uh, can I actually kind of… is it an interactive prototype that I can play around with and stuff like that? So, that's the second thing that we look at. is the solution very easily understandable there, right? The third thing that we look at is Has any effort been made in iterating the solution? And it is very, very clear when we look at the product for the very first time.
49:26 Arindam Mukherjee: For example, if the logo is just written C for Claude, Uh, we understand that there is no… iteration that has gone in, because you could have easily uploaded the Claude logo as the asset file, And you would have gotten a much better looking stuff, right? You could have easily updated the Claude brand design, and I… we would have easily gotten a much better looking page. You could have easily thought about a better-looking copy and made sure the copy is Uh, actually addressing the problem or not. So those are solution iterations. Okay? And we look at that, okay? That, is this something which has been worked on, or is it a one-shot thing? Someone just did it in one shot, whatever came up, they did not bother to iterate on it or not.
50:12 Arindam Mukherjee: Right? So these are things which basically differentiate the different submissions out there. Uh, so that's… that's the way we look at it, yeah. Okay. Yes, they appear. Yeah.
50:27 Dedipya: Yeah, hi Aranu. Yeah, adding to Nina's question, I had a follow-up question. Like, do evaluators look at the prototype along with the content itself? Because in my content slide, the deck has only, like, the main feature that I have worked on, but the prototy
50:33 Arindam Mukherjee: Mm-hmm.
50:47 Dedipya: shows, like, the detailed depth of how that completely works. So, I wanted to know if they, like, look, both of it parallel.
50:57 Arindam Mukherjee: Yes, obviously, we look at all the things that we ask from you, right? We ask, uh, 3 things from you, right? The slide deck, we look at the prototype link and the prompts that… At least in the last month, we asked for the prompts also that you've used. Right? So all of that. So all of that is looked at, yeah.
51:16 Dedipya: Okay, and also, while evaluating for the creativity of solution, like, how much will the weight be given to the novelty of the idea and the depth for the justification that we give for the, like, 3 or 4 solutions that we, propose Like, the alternative solutions, and the one that we choose
51:35 Arindam Mukherjee: Obviously, like, see, solutioning is an iterative process, and also an exploratory process, right? So we want to see, have you actually thought about the different… possible solutions, or have you gone ahead with just one? Because the moment you go ahead with just one, It basically shows that Uh, you might have been. kind of solution-led versus anything. Okay? That's the entire thing. So, for example, I'll just… since you're talking about the solutions, I'll just quickly share my screen and show you one.
52:09 Arindam Mukherjee: Alright, um… Okay, so if you look at the first glance… You would feel like this is ChatGPT, correct?
52:20 Dedipya: Yeah.
52:20 Arindam Mukherjee: It is not. It is… a prototype that someone created, right? But the effort went in to actually make it very, very… like, look at the logos that are used, and look at this. Look at the fonts. It makes it look like, yes, this is ChatGPT. Right? And there are many others also who have done something kind of… It is so very basic. It does not even look like ChatGPT. So, these are things which matter at the end of the day.
52:51 Dedipya: Yeah. Yeah, like, for the… I meant, for the justification is, like, if we are, like, proposing three solutions, and we have given reasoning to 3 of them, and
53:03 Arindam Mukherjee: Yeah, you should get, yeah, absolutely, we look at that as well, yeah.
53:07 Dedipya: Okay.
53:11 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? Uh, Prasanna, yeah?
53:18 Prasanna Shinde: Hi, Adindam. So, once I reviewed my evaluation, I saw that, apart from all the factors, I scored relatively a bit less on the presentation and communication skill part. Reviewing my submission, I see I could have been a bit more articulate, and some of the slides are a bit too wordy, but in general, like, as you mentioned, the storytelling part becomes more important, and how we can present. So, maybe what are the factors which I, and in general, we could use to maybe improve that, or what are the things that we need to take care of?
53:54 Arindam Mukherjee: Sorry, I did not understand the question. What… What exactly are you asking for?
53:59 Prasanna Shinde: So, essentially, I scored a bit less on the presentation and communication skills. So I… once I did some self review, I do understand that some of the slides are a bit too wordy, which transfers the cognitive load on the other person and
54:03 Arindam Mukherjee: Right.
54:18 Prasanna Shinde: Some things could be presented in a bit more articulate fashion. So, what are, like, the general rules, or maybe what we could improve, or…
54:21 Arindam Mukherjee: Right. See, that leads… yeah, so those are kind of… pretty much presentation, one-on-ones that I would go back to first. Simple thing is your slide titles should always convey the message of the slide. And not something like research, solution, metric, something like that, no. The title should actually say what is the summary of that particular slide. Okay? You should use visual aids. You should make sure that the…
54:54 Arindam Mukherjee: kind of text that is being used is not very big, not very small. You should… if you're using font colors, make it easy on the eye. Right? A bunch of those things, it's very basic there, but from a storytelling angle, if you ask, It is more about stitching together each different thing. So, what I always say from a storytelling angle is, If… you did not have any content on any of your slides, but just had the slide titles, which means you have 10 slide titles.
55:25 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? And if you put the 10 slide titles one after the other, Would your… core message of the project still come across? If it does, then your storytelling is perfect, your structure is perfect. If it does not, then you need to work on it.
55:51 Prasanna Shinde: Got it. Thanks.
55:53 Arindam Mukherjee: Nishant?
55:55 NUSHANT SETHI: So, I just want to ask that, on the next website, as I can see, there are 3 things which you have to submit. The first is a 10-slide PDF, I got that. I just… I just can't able to understand that, what are the other
56:10 NUSHANT SETHI: Two things, like, link to the text test, workflow, and link to the prototype. So, like, we do have to
56:14 Arindam Mukherjee: That is what this one's one requirements are a bit different, so please make sure that you read the guidelines very different, very, uh, very well. Uh, we are trying out a slightly different, uh, problem statement format from this month onwards. It requires you to build tools to even do the research. The secondary research, then you… it requires you to validate it, Uh, and then it requires you to actually frame the problem, and then you have to build the solution prototype, right? And we have… tried to kind of separate it out part by part, so that you guys are very clear about what needs to be built. But, uh, it's different from the previous months' projects, yeah.
56:59 NUSHANT SETHI: So, if you can please explain these two things, like, exactly, like, what do you have to create a live test website?
57:02 Arindam Mukherjee: But it's all written in the guideline. which part did you not understand?
57:07 NUSHANT SETHI: Test to the, link to the test workflow, and link to your prototype or the agent that you have deployed.
57:11 Arindam Mukherjee: Already explained on the WhatsApp group, but once again, I'll explain that. You have to build out a tool which basically scrapes through all the reviews and comments and communities, etc., to get insights. Okay, you have to first build that. So you have to link… you have to share the link to that particular thing.
57:34 NUSHANT SETHI: Okay.
57:35 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? Yush, yeah.
57:41 Yash: Regarding this month's, uh… cavement itself, like, part one, we had to, uh, build a product for, uh, secondary research, right? And, of course, we would scrape data, but the sources which are given there are some limitations as well, for example.
57:59 Arindam Mukherjee: You can choose any other sources also, I mean, those are kind of example sources that we have shown here.
58:02 Yash: Okay. It's not like every source which is given there is mandatory. I have to make the trade.
58:07 Arindam Mukherjee: You know, no, this is just kind of a highlight, but you should also talk in your deck Uh, what sources have you chosen? why you went after that source.
58:18 Yash: Yeah, but…
58:20 Arindam Mukherjee: Yeah. Rowan?
58:24 Rohan Raj: Yeah, hi, so my question is regarding the second problem statement. So, you know, the problem statement stated that, we need to scrape Reddit You know. People were talking about Spotify or you know Ghana on Reddit. So, I wasn't able to scrape, you know, the posts from Reddit because they do not allow So there was some technical
58:50 Arindam Mukherjee: So, look at this world.
58:51 Rohan Raj: -H
58:51 Arindam Mukherjee: Look at Play Store, App Store reviews.
58:55 Rohan Raj: Yeah, so I did Play Store and App Store, and for Spotify community photos, I actually expanded my App Store reviews to five countries.
59:04 Arindam Mukherjee: Perfect.
59:05 Rohan Raj: Okay, so, when you say we need to also submit a link, do you actually mean that we need to build a dashboard of the insights that
59:17 Rohan Raj: The AI review engine basically gave us
59:17 Arindam Mukherjee: No, we want to… No, so it… see, you can also submit a GitHub link Right? You can… or you can also submit
59:23 Rohan Raj: Okay.
59:27 Arindam Mukherjee: Uh, if you are able to build it out in an interactive fashion, that, okay, I will hit run, and it will show me, uh, kind of what data is being fetched, that's also fine. Uh, if you want to, kind of, uh, put up an ATEN workflow,
59:41 Rohan Raj: Oh, okay.
59:44 Arindam Mukherjee: And share the Netain workflow link, that is also fine. There are different ways to do it. Alright? There's no one way to do it.
59:50 Rohan Raj: Okay. That would have all the filters and
59:58 Arindam Mukherjee: Yeah, up to you. That's completely up to you.
01:00:02 Rohan Raj: Okay, there's one more question. When I was working on the first transition project I actually hit a road clock when I was preparing the solution. My solution did not actually have a
01:00:18 Arindam Mukherjee: Sorry, I'm not able to hear you properly, uh, Ron. Can you just repeat that last part?
01:00:18 Rohan Raj: I mean, just Okay, am I clear now?
01:00:24 Arindam Mukherjee: Yeah.
01:00:27 Rohan Raj: So, when I was building the solution on my first graduation project, I actually had a roadblock. So my solution did not actually have a competitive advantage And so it was easily replicable by the competitors, but then
01:00:41 Arindam Mukherjee: Right.
01:00:43 Rohan Raj: the long-term effect would have benefited ChatGPT, because I use ChatGPT You know, project. So Does the solution necessarily have to be a have to have a competitive motor, you know, we can also proceed that way
01:01:02 Arindam Mukherjee: No, it… see, again, think about it in the real world. If you're building something, wouldn't you want your solution to stand out and… kind of have that competitive advantage. If you build something which is very easily built by another competitor the next day,
01:01:13 Rohan Raj: Yeah.
01:01:19 Arindam Mukherjee: Like, would you want to build something like that? No, right? So, think from that angle, basically. Gogun?
01:01:29 Rohan Raj: Okay, but could there be a scenario that, the solution may not have a competitive advantage, but still, you know, survive?
01:01:38 Arindam Mukherjee: It can, which is why I'm saying it can, but you'll score low on creativity of solution, that's the only thing.
01:01:45 Rohan Raj: Okay.
01:01:45 Arindam Mukherjee: I don't know what else you were expecting there, but yeah.
01:01:49 Rohan Raj: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
01:01:49 Arindam Mukherjee: I'm going?
01:01:50 Rohan Raj: Ticket Thank you.
01:01:53 Gagan Bansal: Hello.
01:01:53 Arindam Mukherjee: Yeah.
01:01:56 Gagan Bansal: I wanted to ask that, uh, do we have to conduct the survey also, instead of…
01:02:00 Arindam Mukherjee: Up to you. See, again, it is… please try to understand this, right? When you're working as a product manager, nobody's going to tell you, okay, you have to conduct a survey, okay, you have to do this, okay, you have to do that. No.
01:02:01 Gagan Bansal: Like, alone.
01:02:12 Arindam Mukherjee: The only brief that you will get is you'll have to solve this problem. Go ahead and figure it out. Okay? So stop asking these questions that, should I be doing this, should I be doing that? No. Do you… whatever you think you would have done if you were given this particular problem statement, right? That's the entire thing. You are doing user research. I'm repeating again and again, you do user research to… Increase your confidence in the direction that you're headed. Okay? So, you need to be confident about the direction that you're headed in. Whatever user research methods you want to use, up to you. There is no mandate that you have to do this also, that also. Never.
01:02:54 Arindam Mukherjee: Manish?
01:02:54 Gagan Bansal: Oh, excuse me, thank you.
01:03:00 Manish: Yeah, is my voice audible?
01:03:01 Arindam Mukherjee: Yeah.
01:03:02 Manish: Yeah, uh, I just had a doubt that, um, the initial, the part one of the project. In which, uh, as everyone knows, you have to, like, post the link, right? So, it is also mentioned that the evaluator will also test the workflow. So, the question was like, now you mentioned we can just put the GitHub link.
01:03:22 Arindam Mukherjee: Hmm.
01:03:22 Manish: So, once we put the GitHub link, generate the scraping and all takes a lot amount of time, so is it like you, you, the validator even wants to check the scraping happening plus the filtering out happening.
01:03:33 Arindam Mukherjee: We'll look at what is in your report to begin with, right?
01:03:38 Manish: Okay.
01:03:38 Arindam Mukherjee: That's the first thing that you would look at, but typically, a good way to do it would be, like, again, I'm not saying that, uh… Each of these ways are absolutely fine and acceptable from our side. Uh, we will find out a way to test it out, don't worry, yeah.
01:03:59 Manish: So, uh, like, a couple of us had this in our mind, so we were like, We will scrape out the data separately and we will keep the scraped data as a CSV. And we just show, like, for the evaluators to test it, we'll have a front end.
01:04:12 Arindam Mukherjee: No. No. No.
01:04:15 Manish: No.
01:04:15 Arindam Mukherjee: Because I know what you're going to do, you're going to all, like, one person is going to do it and share it across the board. That's what you're going to do.
01:04:16 Manish: Okay. Okay, so that means we should have the… so you would be also testing the scraping out also, that means.
01:04:27 Arindam Mukherjee: Absolutely, yes.
01:04:29 Manish: Okay, that is a very important clarifying question.
01:04:30 Arindam Mukherjee: We'll find… we'll see again, which is what I'm saying, we'll find out a way to test for it. Don't worry, right? We have our own internal sandbox also, by the way, within NextLeap.
01:04:36 Manish: Okay.
01:04:40 Arindam Mukherjee: When you submit a link, right, we can test for that also.
01:04:46 Manish: Okay. And my second question is, so there was a line mentioned so that the strategic goal of the whichever company you choose.
01:04:47 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay.
01:04:57 Manish: Is to also have a meaningful discovery, so when you mean meaningful discovery, like, what did they mean by meaningful discovery over there?
01:05:03 Arindam Mukherjee: In full discovery means that you've learned something new. Right? You've gotten some new insight.
01:05:11 Manish: Okay, so the user who's… who's, like, they are targeting that the user has a meaningful discovery over there. And does not repeat the previous old playlist, right. So, the meaningful discovery for the user is what are they expecting.
01:05:23 Arindam Mukherjee: I don't remember the… what was the line exactly written? Can you just read that out?
01:05:28 Manish: Yeah, one minute… Yeah, I'm just reading out the line. Uh, so one of your company's strategic goal. is to increase meaningful music discovery.
01:05:49 Arindam Mukherjee: This is from the user's standpoint, yes.
01:05:49 Manish: And reduce repetitive. Correct. From the user's standpoint. So, what are they exactly asking?
01:05:53 Arindam Mukherjee: Which means they are… Uh, which means they are discovering new stuff which is relevant to them. When will you… let's say I don't listen to Punjabi songs, okay? But I…
01:06:06 Manish: Hmm.
01:06:06 Arindam Mukherjee: like, Spotify starts recommending Punjabi songs. It is… is it discovery for me? Yes. Is it meaningful discovery? No.
01:06:15 Manish: Right. Got it.
01:06:18 Arindam Mukherjee: Shift.
01:06:18 Manish: So it should be meaningful to them.
01:06:20 Arindam Mukherjee: That's what it means.
01:06:22 Manish: Okay
01:06:25 Arindam Mukherjee: Shuf?
01:06:26 Shiv Bandopadhyay: Yeah, hiatam. So, actually, I just wanted to confirm, in that review analysis test part, we can share the GitHub, README and Voice test demo, these things we can share. It will not be a negative effect.
01:06:37 Arindam Mukherjee: Yeah. Okay, uh, tell me…
01:06:41 Shiv Bandopadhyay: Okay, and one more thing I wanted to ask, in, last, in protract build, do we also need to, build a similar kind of, something we have to submit, or only just a front-end prototype build only we can submit
01:06:55 Arindam Mukherjee: It should be an interactive prototype, um, so I'm not looking for a proper…
01:06:58 Shiv Bandopadhyay: To, like, mock up, mock up if we develop, that also becomes interactive. So, for that backend is not required. So, that is also sufficient, or…
01:07:03 Arindam Mukherjee: Bye. So, that's what I'm saying, not backend is not required. But it should be interactive. Because back-end, there's no way for me to test for it. Right?
01:07:16 Shiv Bandopadhyay: So, okay, so it will be, like, if you click on the button You should be able to travel to the next page, that's all. The data will not come
01:07:23 Arindam Mukherjee: I should understand what the user flow is, yes. That is what a prototype is. You see, in the real world, also, as a product manager, that's what you're going to be doing, right? You're going to actually build out prototypes so that the engineering can understand what is the… kind of flow, the user flow that you're looking for. Okay. Alvin? Or whatever the name is, sorry.
01:07:47 Md107 calvin: Hi, so the main issue that I am still stuck on the review part, that is
01:07:54 Md107 calvin: There are a lot of limitations that we face during the dating part For example, let's say App Store. App Store blocks mass scraping
01:08:05 Arindam Mukherjee: You would have learned this, by the way, during Bildard, so please go back to those recordings and try that out.
01:08:05 Md107 calvin: And, From a local standpoint, it is fine, but when we deploy, everything changes. So there are a lot of roadblocks for the entire workflow to be deployed, and what do you say, showed to you. So, the method you said was to share a Git repo. So, will you be running our program… let's say we make it locally, and will you be running locally?
01:08:33 Arindam Mukherjee: Again, if you're not able to build it, then write down why you are not able to do it. At least be able to defend whatever you're putting out there, right?
01:08:42 Md107 calvin: Okay, so let's say, does it have to be complex? Like Can… can we just show the codes, like, scripts To show our workflow, or should it be,
01:08:53 Arindam Mukherjee: Like, you should ideally say, like, why would you shy away from it? See, simple thing, if you're doing something, That's a skill that you have. Be prepared to showcase that skill, be prepared to defend that skill.
01:09:06 Md107 calvin: No, no, what I mean by that is, when we're running scripts, it's just simplistic. We are manually doing the work, instead of building an app. So
01:09:17 Arindam Mukherjee: Again, please try to understand the objective. Your objective is not to build a workflow.
01:09:18 Md107 calvin: Let's say it's done on Google Colab.
01:09:24 Arindam Mukherjee: Your objective is to get insights. Focus on the outcome, not the output.
01:09:26 Md107 calvin: Yeah, but Will we be judged on the complexity, or what do you say? If it's too simple, the system, is the marks going to be lowered, or is there a… is it the end result, or the system that is more meaningful?
01:09:38 Arindam Mukherjee: there is, I think, like, too simple or too complex here, right? If it does the job, great. It either does the job or it does not do the job, right?
01:09:49 Md107 calvin: So the marks are for the end insights
01:09:49 Arindam Mukherjee: What we are looking for is whether it does the job or not, first of all.
01:09:54 Md107 calvin: The ending sites are the priorities.
01:09:56 Arindam Mukherjee: Right.
01:09:59 Md107 calvin: Yeah, and by insights, do you mean suggestions, or just the numbers?
01:10:04 Arindam Mukherjee: We've discussed this in user research, right? What do you get from user research? You get insights, right?
01:10:11 Md107 calvin: We infer from the numbers. So, is it our inference, or the system spitting out the inference?
01:10:19 Arindam Mukherjee: You should just revisit week two. It seems like you've forgotten. Just revisit user research pieces, you would understand it. Yeah. Daria?
01:10:27 Md107 calvin: No, no, the review system in the sense that Should the system that you build give the insights, or just that is
01:10:36 Arindam Mukherjee: Everything is written in the problem statement. I don't know why you're getting confused. Ask your peers if you're confused on this, but this is the simplest of things that you're asking questions on, yeah.
01:10:37 Md107 calvin: My notes
01:10:47 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay, Narium?
01:10:51 Dhairya Bansal: Oh, hi, Arandam. I have 3 questions. The first two questions about… So, my first question would be, um, at the end of our slide deck. if I get the chance and the opportunity to ask open questions, would it be wise to put that?
01:11:08 Arindam Mukherjee: Ask open question for…
01:11:09 Dhairya Bansal: Yeah, open… open question slash edge questions, like, um, you know, uh, things that would… that might… break my solution, or the prototype that I've built.
01:11:17 Arindam Mukherjee: Absolutely. You definitely should include that. I think, if I'm not wrong in the guide… in the…
01:11:20 Dhairya Bansal: Okay.
01:11:23 Arindam Mukherjee: Guidelines, we have already mentioned that you should include ways in which your solution can fail.
01:11:27 Dhairya Bansal: I… I don't think so it's in the… okay, I'll check it again. I'll check it again. I'm not sure.
01:11:31 Arindam Mukherjee: Or maybe we were trying out a different format this time. We definitely expect you to see If you are able to critique your solution or not.
01:11:41 Dhairya Bansal: Yeah, yeah, because I remember we did that in Mindstone 3, so that's right.
01:11:42 Arindam Mukherjee: You should. Absolutely. Absolutely, you should, yeah.
01:11:47 Dhairya Bansal: Yeah, and second question, um… Because I'm seeing this through the lens of… I will be presenting this to, you know, the Spotify team.
01:11:55 Arindam Mukherjee: Hmm.
01:11:55 Dhairya Bansal: Uh, what they would want it, so… Uh, my second question was, should I include a slide once I've done my user research and I've understood the problem? I've also scoped out the problem. Should I also then, uh… build a KPI tree and include the business outcome and the product outcome.
01:12:10 Arindam Mukherjee: Again, none of these things are… kind of mandated or anything. If you think it makes sense to include it. As part of your overall storytelling? Sure. If you think that, no, in this particular problem statement, something like this does not make sense, then don't do it. See, it is not about whatever we have taught, we are trying to test for each one, no. We are giving you a problem statement. We have given you all the toolkits that you can potentially have.
01:12:33 Dhairya Bansal: Okay.
01:12:40 Arindam Mukherjee: Now, whether you need a scissor or whether you need an axe, or whether you need a knife. to cut the tree. It's up to you.
01:12:47 Dhairya Bansal: Yes, yes, yes. Only, only slight confusion I had was…
01:12:47 Arindam Mukherjee: Right?
01:12:50 Dhairya Bansal: Uh, in the problem statement, uh, it's been given that this is a company goal. a company goal does not mean that that is the business outcome. I mean, you will extract…
01:13:01 Arindam Mukherjee: Yeah, yeah.
01:13:02 Dhairya Bansal: So, uh, if I… You know, if I'm doing this act of…
01:13:07 Arindam Mukherjee: You can always edit why this makes sense from a business perspective, sure.
01:13:11 Dhairya Bansal: Okay, okay, yeah, yeah. And one last question, which… It might sound numb, but let's suppose, uh, I've done my entire research, I've scoped out a problem, I've put on the possible solution as well. Uh, but once I'm identif- um… thinking through those solutions. And I justify them. Uh… Is it possible, or is it wise, that if I come at a stalement when I think none of the solution Um… How should I frame this? I'm sorry.
01:13:45 Dhairya Bansal: Uh, basically what I'm trying to…
01:13:45 Arindam Mukherjee: I think if you are in a real-life scenario like this, what would you have done? If none of the solutions made sense, what would you have done?
01:14:00 Dhairya Bansal: I… probably I would have gone back to my problem and, um… revisited it again.
01:14:04 Arindam Mukherjee: You gave Danzi yourself, yeah? Trishiq, last question.
01:14:11 srishti: Yeah, sorry to the thing is, actually, I had already built a review analyz Is it in my last graduation project in Gliobi for scraping around 1,000 Reddit reviews And
01:14:31 Arindam Mukherjee: Sorry, I'm not able to hear you, Sushti.
01:14:35 srishti: I had already, you know, created the… sorry, Arindam, you… I can't hear your voice, hello
01:14:39 Arindam Mukherjee: Your voice was breaking up, sorry, please.
01:14:41 srishti: Am I ordering? Yeah, yeah, am I audible now, Arindam
01:14:44 Arindam Mukherjee: Yes, yes, go ahead.
01:14:47 srishti: Yeah, so I had already built a scraper, and I mean review analyzer in my this last recent graduation project, Arindam. In that, if you can just take out the deck, if that's okay. I just wanted to confirm only one thing that in that I had actually already specified all the insights and everything
01:14:54 Arindam Mukherjee: Hmm. Hmm.
01:15:08 srishti: Is that what is required over here as well, or is it the whole… because when I tried doing it, it took hours and hours for me to maybe scrape all that, reviews and then analyze them, and do all sorts of work. I mean, if, Should there be a button, I mean, a CTA that would actually help the instructor understand that, you know, this is the workflow, or, like, we need to rerun it, in that dashboard
01:15:29 Arindam Mukherjee: So, again, No, see, again, once you have built it, right, uh, there is… the workflow should actually help us understand how you have fetched those data points, the reviews, etc. Once you've fetched that data, then, or scraped that data. The next thing is to analyze that data.
01:15:48 srishti: -H
01:15:51 Arindam Mukherjee: There you might use another, like, AI tool, ChatGPT, Cloud Cowork, whatever you want to use there, right?
01:15:55 srishti: Yeah, yeah.
01:15:57 Arindam Mukherjee: That's the second part to it.
01:15:57 srishti: Yeah
01:16:00 Arindam Mukherjee: So, break it into two, and tell us how you did it. That's all that we want to know. See, we want to see, are you actually becoming AI-native or not? You've gone through multiple modules of the AI pieces now, right? We want to see whether you are able to actually do it now yourself or not.
01:16:21 srishti: credit. Yeah
01:16:21 Arindam Mukherjee: That's the entire intent, because at work, when you… start getting into a role of a product manager. That is what is going to be expected from you. Right, so you want to see that you are ready for it. Okay? All right, cool. Well…
01:16:36 srishti: Yeah, thank you.
01:16:36 SEKHARAMANTRI VARUN KUMAR: Yeah Are you in the one last question, I'm really sorry. So I understood, like most of them, they are worried about the volume of data to stay in the context I really have a feeling that, given that Spotify And they would have already addressed the older reviews. So, it's almost like Q2 of 2026. So I think it's more contextual if we consider from Jan 2026 to now, it is almost two quarters and these reviews alone
01:17:07 Arindam Mukherjee: Up to you, right? As I said, think of yourself working in that company. Think how you would work.
01:17:16 SEKHARAMANTRI VARUN KUMAR: Yeah, all right. Yeah
01:17:16 Arindam Mukherjee: Okay? Alright, well, thank you everyone for joining in. I look forward to some amazing submissions this month as well. Please make sure you read all the guidelines, read through the problem statement well enough, don't make assumptions, make sure you really understand each and every word of it. And kind of get to building. Don't waste your time. This time's project is different. You are not going to be able to complete it in 2 or 3 days, so please start early. Alright? Thank you once again, and good luck. Take care. Bye-bye.
01:17:46 Jyotirmoy Nath: Thank you
01:17:46 Rohan Raj: Thank you, Indom.
  